At the foot of an old castle, which was covered with snow and had long been uninhabited, there once grew a thick hedge. In this hedge was a door leading into a little room; over the place where it opened hung a branch of hawthorn so beautiful that no one who saw it could doubt that some fairytale must lie hidden beyond the threshold. This hedge had stood for many years without anyone daring to open its gate or knock at its mysterious door. But now came along three young men who were seeking adventures, and they said: "Come on! We will venture." The first knocked very gently at the door, but when he received no answer, he became frightened and ran away again quickly. Next came the second and also began knocking softly - still more timidly than his companion. He got such a fright that both his ears turned blue, and off he fled as fast as he could go. Then the third went up boldly to the door and struck upon it with all his might until it flew wide open. And what did he see within? A maiden sitting beside a fire cooking her dinner. She rose up courtefully and welcomed him most graciously. When she spoke, however, he heard how hoarse her voice sounded. On the table lay two plates full of bread-and-butter cakes made from oatmeal. One plate was whole, but out of the other the loaves had been gnawed away, nothing remained except crumbs, and these too looked quite grey. Said the girl, I am afraid you are not used to traveling alone by yourself through woods and mountains. Come sit down by my side, rest awhile, refresh your strength, eat something, drink something, smoke something, sleep somewhere. So the youth sat himself down and ate something, drank something, smoked something, slept somewhere, till he felt rested after his walk. After a while he asked if she would show herself altogether. No, replied the maiden, I can only show myself half, because otherwise I should become visible completely, and then people would think me ugly. My face is like a horse's hoof, my nose is bent, my hair stands upright, I have teeth instead of lips, and a tail behind me, and cannot speak plainly, but gibberish. Why do you want to look at me, continued she, since it makes you shudder already before you know what I really look like? It is better we should talk together pleasantly here in our seclusion than make ourselves miserable outside among strangers. Will you stay with me and never leave me any longer? Oh yes, cried the youth, let us live happily together forevermore. How happy we shall be. Do you love me well enough to kiss me? Yes, answered the maiden. They kissed each other, and immediately their eyes closed, they forgot everything else, and became like brother and sister. If you ever forsake me, added the maiden afterwards, I will follow you wherever you may be, and you will always hear me coming nearer every day. You will find me under a straw bed, in a hollow tree trunk, beneath the millstone, underneath the heap of ashes, at the bottom of the cellar stairs, at midnight mass, and between eleven o'clock and twelve. If I call you by name during those hours, come back instantly to me, whether far or near, though you should be standing barefooted in the deep water, or perched high aloft on yonder lofty mountain peak. Now you know where to seek me, dear heart. Wherever you may wander about in sorrow and distress, I shall help you whenever you need assistance. Let this comfort you, and cheer you up. For seven days and nights we shall dwell together joyously. Seven times seven hundred years shall pass before our wedding-day comes round. Then I will build thee a splendid palace, richly adorned inside and out, with marble columns, and hangings of brocade, and cover thy bed with fine linen sheets, and spread them neatly over thee. Then thou shalt wear silken garments, and shoes of red morocco leather embroidered with gold, and diamonds shall adorn thy fingers, and pearls thine neck. As soon as your hour has arrived, God will send you an angel to awaken you. But beware lest you forget anything, or cast even the smallest thing aside, else woe betide you. Go forth now, and enjoy yourself with honest folk. Farewell. He bowed low before her and departed.