There was once upon a time an old shoemaking couple, who from their great age and weak eyesight could no longer earn anything. They lived by the grace of God on alms which people gave them for the sake of godliness. One day when winter had made it very hard for them to get through the snow to beg at the rich folks' houses, they said sadly: how we should like some coal-fire now. Then a voice answered out of heaven that said: lay down your bed outside your door this evening, and do not stir out till I send you notice. When night came, the aged pair laid down their straw pallet in front of their cottage-door as if asleep, but kept carefully awake inside. It began to rain heavily before long, then sleeted, blew, stormed, drifted and hailed violently. The wind whistled round the house so dreadfully that it shook them both from top to toe, still all remained quiet within until twelve o'clock struck, when suddenly there was heard a rattle beneath the threshold, followed by such a pothering, knocking, rustling, whispering and chatterings above and below stairs, that the good folk were terribly frightened, sprang up and fled away upstairs into the room where they slept. But what did these strange noises mean? A man clad entirely in black, his hat likewise pulled far over his forehead, entered the cottage, threw open the oven, took out two large pieces of wood covered with ashes, wiped off the ash-dust, laid them near the fire, put coals on them, kindled them afresh, set a pot full of beans to boil, fetched bread and cheese from the kitchen, placed tables and chairs according to order, brought sheets and pillow-cases from under the bed, hung them on nails to be washed or aired, looked into every corner thoroughly, peeped even behind the clock-case, opened the shutters and windows wide, went out and closed the doors fast again after him, drew the bolt, locked everything securely, sat down beside the hearth, warmed himself comfortably and fell asleep. In the morning when he was sleeping soundly, a poor country lad passed by, stopped short, gazed astonished at window and door standing open, bolts drawn back, table and benches already laid, stove glowing brightly, vessels clean, pots boiling merrily - saw also the stranger's feet towards the wall - crept softly downstairs without making any noise, lifted one leg, dropped it quickly again, picked up something which glittered among the cinders, ran away home, told father and mother of all that he had seen, showed them the object which he thought most precious amongst other things, viz., sixpence. Father knew immediately whose money that was, it belonged to master miser, whom everybody called hush-a-by. For whenever anybody met him anywhere he would draw him aside secretly and say: look here, don't tell anyone else, lest my wife should know it too. Master miser had been lying dead three days, stiff as a stone, frozen half together, blue all over face and hands, so stiff indeed that those who buried him said he must have lain in death's cold embrace since the year 1709, only the sexton knew nothing more than that his name was peter and that nobody ever paid attention to him because he never let himself be seen. And yet hitherto he used regularly to come to church on sunday mornings and sit right opposite the steeple. At first he just appeared there quietly, afterwards however grew bolder, came later each week, sometimes earlier, spoke louder, sang lustily, finally always left off his cap during service, bowed low to the congregation and kissed his thumb at mass-time. He had grown quite mad. This madness had arisen thus: he wanted to marry the beautiful margaret feldkirchinerin, she loved another, laughed at him and mocked him cruelly. From grief and despair he became melancholy, turned sick, got thinner and weaker daily. His fellow-workmen pitied him deeply, helped him to make shoes faster, carried water to wash them better, provided him with oil to grease leather well, lent him thread enough to sew withal, plastered walls beautifully, painted ceilings prettily in order to give him a comfortable place to live in, built him seats of velvet, silk cushions and beds of fine linen, cooked him delicious food, baked him splendid cakes, bought him costly clothes, rings and jewels, silver spoons, gold snuff-boxes, crystal glasses, porcelain cups and saucers, brass candlesticks and gilt vases, loaded him down completely, pressed him so hard that at last he cried aloud: leave me alone, take yourselves elsewhere, otherwise i shall become perfectly crazy. All ceased therefore. Next came a girl named katharine, whose heart he won easily, while her body he possessed willingly, often and joyously. She bore him five children, four sons and a daughter, christened elisabeth.