 The poor man had nothing to eat, but his wife knew how to prepare the most delicious soups. And if she said "Soup-pot, boil," and laid in one small bean after another till it was full of them, then they were all cooked together into a big cauldronful of good hot broth with meat and vegetables. At last when there came no more beans, still did not the little pot cease boiling. So once on a time he gave himself airs because the woman could do so much with him, and said, as if talking aloud - I have boiled for her now such heaps of water without end, that must go down my throat at last." Then he began looking everywhere round about, in order to get out quickly. He climbed up over the stove, sprang from cinder-heap to cinder heap, and got upon the roof where he thought he would be safe enough. But just as he sat there, a drop fell on his nose, then another on his forehead, and others followed, until soon a heavy shower came on which drove him back again downstairs through fireplace and kitchen into the room below. When the storm ceased, and the sun shone forth, the cat who lived under the hearthstone took pity on him, lifted him by the tail, carried him upstairs, set him upright close beside the chimney, and smoothed his ruffled coat nicely for him with her paw. As long as the pot remained quiet, and behaved well towards people, everything went well with him. Once only a year afterward he played tricks again. A servant-maid brought some peas from market and put them into the boiler, saying, "soup-pot cook me a nice piece of beef with these green peas." But the greedy fellow saw what fine fat red apples lay on the table, looked greedily at those too, and suddenly let fall two or three pieces of charcoal among the peas. Next morning early while the master was yet asleep, the maid lit the fire afresh, lighted the lamp, fetched the apple-peas from the boiler and served them up on slices of bread. She spread white linen above and beneath the dish, and placed it before the master's plate. Now you can imagine how angry the latter became when instead of an appetizing bowl of pea-soup he found this mess, and how vexed also he felt afterwards that he had been taken in like a child. From that day forward every one hated the old soup-pot. If any one uttered even a single evil word against him, it made itself heard throughout the whole house, and echoed through cellar vaults and garrets. ### Leave a comment:
@winnie: That is interesting, Winnie, thanks! You write beautiful stories, BTW :) @Barnabas: It sounds kind of scary though...I wonder why? Well, I'm glad your soup doesn't run dry :D ### Leave scomment:
A Magic Soup Pot In India, during the cold season many families keep a soup-kettle always filled with lentil-water simmering gently; and whenever anyone wants something warm and nourishing to drink, he has merely to dip in a cupful. There are many kinds of food that will make the soup thicker than ordinary, if added thereto. For instance, rice makes it very thick, and fish flakes make it thin. One night, however, the kettle ran short of fuel, and was allowed to cool off. But next morning, when its owner came to fill it, behold--the bottom was blackened, and burned away, showing a hole right through the sides and lid! Out flew smoke like steam from a volcano, and roaring flames darted upward from the mouth of the kettleship. What a fright the women suffered!--and what a disaster might easily have happened, if the household had not been awakened first, and hastened to draw off their treasure-house of gold from the fiery danger!